
Assignment 2. Stored Procedures, triggers, functions

Integrantes:
Yair Arboleda
Juan David Echeverri
Yesika Marcela Montes Rodas


Puntos del taller:

A company records information on its fleet of vehicles and the employees who are permitted to drive them. The
database is used by three groups of people: the department managers, the finance division, and the service
department.
For the department managers, each vehicle has a unique registration number and each driver a unique
employee number and full name, other data required for vehicles are: plate, status (Active, Inactive, Repairing,
Sold), mileage, model (2010, 2011). Drivers may be authorized to drive a number of vehicles, and any vehicle
may be used by a number of drivers. Class of vehicles are: Moped, Motorcycle, Trike motorcycle, Car, Light
rigid heavy vehicle, Medium rigid heavy vehicle, heavy rigid vehicle, tractor, Wheelchair vehicle. Some classes
of vehicle require specialist driver qualifications, each qualification has a status (Active, Inactive, Expired,
Disqualified) and an assignment date. There are occasional accidents which may lead to the vehicle being
written off and/or the driver being disqualified from driving some or all classes of vehicle.
For the finance division, each vehicle, identified again by registration number, has a current and a replacement
value, must be taxed on a certain date, and was bought on a certain date. Finally, details such us: policy
number, loss date, date of issue, nature of payment and damages are recorded of any insurance claims
associated with accidents, or repair costs if no insurance claim arose along with details: date, description,
amount and status (Pending, Paid)

The service department is responsible for giving regular services to each vehicle. There are different types of
service such as:
● Automatic Transmission Fluid
● Battery and Cables
● Belts
● Brakes
● Cabin Air Filter
● Chassis Lubrication
● Dashboard Indicator Light On
● Coolant (Antifreeze)
● Engine Air Filter
● Engine Oil
● Exhaust
● Hoses
● Lights
● Power Steering Fluid
● Steering and Suspension
● Tire Inflation and Condition
● Wheel Alignment
● Windshield Washer Fluid
● Wiper Blades

Each service must have a name, issue date, description, status (pending, scheduled, ok) and should be
associated to the types of services listed above. Each type of service has a status (OK, pending, needs_repair,
observations).

Tables proposed:
● vehicles
● drivers
● drivers_qualifications
● Types_of_vehicles
● insurance_claims
● repair_costs
● types_of_service *
● Services
● Service_details

Usar el tablespace, roles, privilegios creados en el "Assignment1" (Hacer las correcciones necesarias)
Dentro del repositorio pasado, crear una carpeta llamada "Assignment2"

1. Normalize and attach entity relationship diagram (imagen, git) (1.0

2. Create tables with its columns according to your normalization. Create sequences for every primary
key, create constraints for columns which are "status". Create primary and foreign keys. Insert at least
20 vehicles (At least one of each class), 50 drivers, 10 insurance claims, 5 services (Go to
http://www.generatedata.com/). This should be a functional single script (.sql) (Better if you generate
sql through sql developer) (0.5)

3. Create a backup trough postman and take a screenshot of the list of backups in the console. Add the
image to git. (0.5)

4. Create a view which should be run only by users associated to "finance_profile ". The view should look
like this:

Registration_number / Mileage / Model / Current_value / class / Replacement_Value / Status /
Required_special_qualification? / Number_of_services / Total_money_spent_in_repairs.
The view should show only class of cars: Car, Light rigid heavy vehicle, Medium rigid heavy vehicle,
heavy rigid vehicle, tractor and and filter the cars which were bought since 2 years ago and order them
by mileage (descending) (0.5)
5. Create a function to assign the name of the service, this function should return a string. The string
must have the number of mileages run, and remember each revision is performed every 3 months, the
name has the structure "mileage_service", for instance (3000_service, 6000_service, 9000_service). If
the name already exist in the service table for that vehicle, must return an empty string, otherwise you
need to calculate the number based on the current mileage, for instance, if the mileage of the car is
11560 miles the name should return "9000_service". (0.5)

6. Create a stored procedure which accepts the id of vehicle as argument, inside the procedure you
should:
a. Call the function to assign the name of the service
b. If the string is not empty, create a new service for that vehicle in status "Pending", current
date, the description field should contains next text "Mandatory '9000_service' service; current
mileage '9123'". If the string is empty do nothing.
c. Associate all the types of services to the service, for each type of service the status column
must have the value "Pending". (0.5)

7. Create a trigger which once the mileage column is updated, call the procedure just created. (0.5)

8. Create a stored procedure to decrease the current value of vehicles as follows:
a. If the class of vehicle is Moped, Motorcycle and Trike motorcycle 2% of the current value.
b. If the class of vehicle is Car, Light rigid heavy vehicle, Medium rigid heavy vehicle 3% of the
current value.
c. Otherwise 5% of the current value.
d. Only "manager_profile " is allowed to run the procedure and should print at the end "Number of
vehicles updated successfully: xx" (0.5)

